Admission Date:  [**2720-7-27**]       Discharge Date:  [**2720-9-4**]

Date of Birth:   [**2694-1-15**]       Sex:  F

Service:  MED-ICU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:   The patient is a 26 year old
woman with a past medical history significant for
long-standing poorly controlled diabetes mellitus, a three
year history of a poorly defined neuropathy and chronic
diarrhea, also of uncertain etiology.  The patient had been
worked up extensively for these problems without definitive
diagnosis but had been treated with multiple anti-motility
agents and pancreatic enzymes for her diarrhea with little
relief.

For several weeks prior to admission, the patient had
complained of increasing weakness of her lower extremities
and increasing fatigue.  In addition, approximately one week
prior to admission, the patient fractured her left toe and
experienced erythema and edema of her distal left foot.  On
[**7-27**], the patient was admitted to [**Hospital1 470**] for work-up of progressive weakness and
diarrhea, and control of labile blood sugars.  On admission,
the patient was started on Oxacillin for presumed cellulitis
of her left foot.

On the Medical Floor after admission, the patient's course
was notable for labile blood sugars for which the [**Last Name (un) 124**]
Service was consulted as well as diarrhea which was treated
with Octreotide, Imodium and Paregoric.  She also was treated
with Diflucan and Ciprofloxacin for funguria and bacteruria.
On these regimens, the patient was stable on the Medical
Floor but with little apparent improvement in her symptoms.
However, on the night of [**8-1**], the patient became
febrile to 101.3 F., and complained of increased bloating.
During the morning of [**8-2**], the patient complained of
abrupt onset of shortness of breath accompanied by poorly
characterized chest pain and blood sugars of 29.  The patient
was given an ampule of D50  which increased her blood sugar
to 248, but her shortness of breath worsened and the patient
was found to have oxygen saturations in the 50s on room air,
which increased only to the mid-70s on 100% non-rebreather.

The patient was then intubated but failed to increase her
oxygen saturation and her systolic blood pressure dropped to
the 80s.  The patient was found to have an endotracheal tube
in the right main stem bronchus, in other words, out of the
left lung.  The endotracheal tube was pulled back to 2.5
centimeters above the carina but the patient's PaO2 remained
at 79 in 100% non-rebreather.  A subsequent chest x-ray
showed bilateral diffuse infiltrates consistent with adult
respiratory distress syndrome.  Her blood pressure continued
to drop to systolic blood pressures of 60s and she was
started on Neo-Synephrine and the CSRU following by boluses
of two liters intravenous fluids with little increase in her
blood pressure.

Differential diagnoses for acute respiratory failure were at
this point was aspiration pneumonitis with adult respiratory
distress syndrome versus pulmonary embolism.

Electrocardiogram, lower extremity ultrasound and
transthoracic echocardiogram were done all without signs of
pulmonary embolus, however, given the abrupt onset and
inability to complete a CT angiogram due to the patient's
unstable status, empiric heparin was started according to the
pulmonary embolism protocol.  In addition, given the
patient's fever the night prior to this incident,
hypertension and antibiotics were changed to Zosyn,
Ciprofloxacin, Vancomycin, Flagyl and Fluconazole for broad
anti-microbial coverage for sepsis.

Based on an abdominal radiograph that showed a massively
distended dilated stomach filled with fluids, and given the
patient's history of gastroparesis, it was felt that the
gastric distention and chest x-ray were consistent with an
aspiration process.  The patient was admitted to the Medical
Intensive Care Unit with a course described below.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Type 1 diabetes mellitus, poorly controlled.
2.  Chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP),
poorly and not fully defined.
3.  Autonomic insufficiency with orthostatic hypotension.
4.  Atonic bladder with history of recurrent urinary tract
infections.
5.  Iron deficiency anemia and anemia of chronic disease.
6.  Migraines.
7.  History of major depressive disorder and general anxiety
disorder.

ALLERGIES:   No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1.  Insulin NPH 15 mg q. a.m./q. p.m.; Regular 10 mg q.
a.m./q. p.m.
2.  Glargine 50 mg q. h.s.
3.  Creon 10, 33.2-10-38, six capsules three times a day with
meals.
4.  Sandostatin 50 mg twice a day.
5.  Paregoric two tablets twice a day.
6.  Klonopin 0.5 mg twice a day.
7.  Oxycontin 20 mg twice a day.
8.  Naprosyn 500 mg twice a day.
9.  Ativan 0.5 mg q. h.s.
10. Imodium p.r.n. diarrhea.
11. Kaopectate p.r.n. diarrhea.
12. Fioricet [**PT ID Number 6021**], one to two q. four to six hours
p.r.n. migraines.

SOCIAL HISTORY:   The patient lives alone in [**Initials (NamePattern4) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 3203**].
Appears to have good social support.  Used to work as a
phlebotomist but currently on disability.  Has an eleven pack
year history of smoking with occasional marijuana that helps
with her diarrhea.  She drinks alcohol socially.

FAMILY HISTORY:   Significant for a father with coronary
artery disease with rheumatoid arthritis and a mother with
coronary artery disease and diabetes mellitus.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:   On admission to the Medical Intensive
Care Unit, temperature 93.8 F., orally, heart rate of 113
with a blood pressure of 128/74.  Respiratory:  The patient
was on a ventilator on SIMV plus pressure support setting
breathing at a respiratory rate of 14 with an oxygen
saturation of 88% on 100% FIO2 with control pressures of 45.
On general examination, she was a woman intubated and
paralyzed with an OG tube in place.  HEENT examination:  Her
right pupil was found to be oval and sluggishly reactive.
Her left pupil round and more reactive (of note, she has had
a dart injury to her right eye as a child which leaves her
eye and pupil less reactive).  Her neck was supple with no
jugular venous distention.  Trachea was midline.  Her heart
examination was tachycardic with normal S1 and S2.  No
murmurs, rubs or gallops were heard.  Her lungs had decreased
breath sounds bilaterally, left worse than right to the
mid-lung fields.  She had diffuse rhonchi throughout.  Her
abdomen was distended and tense and tympanitic with no
masses.  Extremities had one plus pitting edema with erythema
in the left foot 2 to 3 centimeters above the ankle.  No
crepitus or warmth.  Her skin was cool and dry with no
cyanosis.  On neurologic examination, she was sedated.

ADMISSION LABORATORY:  Her admission labs included a CBC of
white blood cell count of 12.5, hematocrit of 30.8, platelets
of 353.  Sodium of 137, potassium 4.4, chloride 101,
bicarbonate 28, BUN 19, creatinine 0.8 and glucose of 289
with a calcium of 7.5, phosphate of 6.3 and magnesium of 1.5.
 Her AST was 37, ALT 37, alkaline phosphatase of 134,
bilirubin of 0.1, amylase 58, lipase 26.

Her lactate was 2.9.  A serum toxicology screen was negative.
Blood cultures and fungal cultures were sent.  A urine
culture showed greater than 100,000 yeast.  A urinalysis
showed 11 to 20 white blood cells, few bacteria and many
yeast.

Initial chest x-ray showed a endotracheal tube in the right
main stem bronchus and later after repositioning of the
endotracheal tube diffuse bilateral patchy air space disease
and marked gastric distention.

SUMMARY OF INTENSIVE CARE UNIT COURSE BY ISSUES:
1.  PULMONARY:  As stated above, the patient was intubated on
[**8-2**] secondary to hypoxia.  The etiology of the
patient's symptoms were considered to be aspiration versus
pulmonary embolus.  She was started on broad-spectrum
anti-microbials.  On [**8-3**], the patient suffered a left
pneumothorax in the setting of attempted central line
placement with hypoxemia and hypotension.  A left chest tube
was placed at this time which improved her oxygen
saturations.

The patient required multiple adjustments to her ventilator
settings from assist control to pressure control over the
next few weeks largely due to repeated episodes of hypoxemia
of unclear etiology.  A CT angiogram on [**8-6**] showed no
evidence of pulmonary embolus.  The patient continued to have
patchy adult respiratory distress syndrome disease greater on
the right than on the left side.  Overall, the patient
continued to have a stuttering course in her recovery from
adult respiratory distress syndrome particularly sensitive to
both agitation and sedation, leading to decreased oxygen
saturation, tachycardia and tachypnea.

She required occasionally Lasix as well to maintain her
oxygen saturations as during the initial few weeks; she had a
tendency to develop pulmonary edema secondary to intravenous
fluids.  Her left pneumothorax continued to improve and the
chest tube was removed on [**2720-8-18**].  The remaining
small pneumothorax resolved over the next few days.

Given that it was felt that the patient would be a slow wean
off the endotracheal tube the patient had a tracheostomy
placed on [**2720-8-19**].  She had a chest CT scan on
[**2720-8-20**], which showed a right pleural effusion as
well as diffuse air space disease in both lungs,
predominantly in a parabroncho-vascular distribution.  A
thoracocentesis on [**8-21**] showed pleural fluid with 250
white blood cells, 29% polys, a pH of 7.48, negative Gram
stains.  Pleural fluid LDH was 176.  This was suggestive of
an exudative process concerning for a parapneumonic effusion.

Given a finding of Gram positive cocci in sputum and a
concern for parapneumonic effusion, the patient was started
on Vancomycin empirically, however, the cultures remained
negative and the Vancomycin was discontinued on [**8-24**].
Following the thoracocentesis, the patient was begun to be
weaned off her sedation and continued to improve her
respiratory status and by [**9-2**], requiring only
pressure support.  On [**9-4**], she was stable on a
pressure support of [**4-18**] and considered for a trial of trache
mask in anticipation of further pulmonary rehabilitation at
an outside hospital.

2.  INFECTIOUS DISEASE:  Given the patient's initial fever
and white blood cell count of 12.9, she was started on broad
spectrum anti-microbials with Zosyn, Gentamycin, Flagyl,
Vancomycin and Fluconazole.  She continued to have yeast in
her urine and she was started on amphotericin bladder washes.
Over the next six weeks, the patient continued to have
intermittent fevers and white blood cell count as high as
25,000.  On [**8-12**], she had a blood culture from an A-line
that was positive for coagulase negative Staphylococcus.  The
A-line was changed.

A blood culture on [**8-4**] was positive for [**First Name5 (NamePattern1) **]
[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 3243**].  Given this blood culture and the fact that she
also had yeast in her sputum and her urine, she was started
on amphotericin-B as well as continued on Gentamycin and
Zosyn for Gram negative rods in her sputum.  The
amphotericin-B dose was 0.5 mg per kg intravenously q. day.
On [**8-13**], the patient was switched to AmBisome 3 mg per
kg for a total of 270 mg q. day, given that her creatinine
had begun to increase from 0.7 to 1.1 over the prior few
days.

As noted before, the patient was continued on AmBisome until
[**8-29**], for a total of a 23 day course of amphotericin
and AmBisome.  At this point, given a concern for drug
related fevers and given that repeat fungal cultures had
remained negative, the AmBisome was stopped at this point.

The patient also had a positive urine culture on [**8-21**]
for Klebsiella pneumonia which was resistant to all
penicillin and cephalosporins.  The patient was placed on
contact precautions; the Foley was changed and repeat
cultures remained negative.  Given the patient's diarrhea and
continued increased white blood cell counts, the patient had
repeated tests for Clostridium difficile toxins which were
negative.  A C. difficile cytoculture is still pending.

Work-up for any other source of infection remained negative.
Of note, on [**8-14**], the patient's alkaline phosphatase was
noted to 1,199, which was increased from 73 on [**8-4**].
Gastrointestinal was consulted and there was a concern for an
infiltrative liver process, particularly Candidiasis versus
biliary disease.  Total parenteral nutrition was also
considered as a potential etiology.

The patient had a liver and gallbladder ultrasound on [**8-14**], which showed no intrahepatic biliary ductal dilatation
but a thickened gallbladder wall measuring 5 to 6 millimeters
and a small rim of pericholecystic fluid.  No gallstones were
identified and the liver parenchyma was homogenous.

Acalculous cholecystitis was considered as a diagnosis but a
lack of gallbladder distention as well as acute dilatation of
the common duct made this less probable.  The patient's
alkaline phosphatase remained stable over that weekend and a
repeat ultrasound on [**8-18**] showed resolution of these
findings; however, the patient's alkaline phosphatase
remained elevated and given the concern for an interstitial
liver process, the patient had an abdominal CT scan which
showed no evidence of liver disease or other intra-abdominal
abscesses.

At the same time, the patient also had a chest CT scan which
has been described above in the Pulmonary Section and a sinus
CT scan which was negative for sinus disease.

The alkaline phosphatase began to slowly improve, but given
the patient's continued fevers and persistent concern, a HIDA
scan was obtained on [**8-25**] which was negative.  By
[**9-4**], the alkaline phosphatase had dropped back to
257, had been decreasing every day.

On [**8-26**], the patient underwent an Indium-[**12-26**] white
blood cell scan to assess for any other foci of infection.
This scan was completely negative.  The patient's white blood
cell count continued to improve and she was afebrile on
[**8-30**] and 17, however, at that point her white blood
cell count started to rise again and she developed a new
fever to 102.0 F.  She was started on Vancomycin and Cefepime
empirically for pneumonia and/or line infection.

Blood cultures were drawn from her left subclavian line and
her right arterial line.  Three out of the four bottles of
the right arterial line returned Gram positive cocci.  The
Cefepime was discontinued.  The patient received a new right
subclavian line and will be discharged on a seven day course
of Vancomycin in light of the positive A-line cultures.

The patient also will be discharged on p.o. Flagyl 500 mg
three times a day given her diarrhea, for a seven day course
past the last day of Vancomycin.

3.  CARDIOVASCULAR:  Following intubation, the patient was
hypotensive, requiring a Neo-Synephrine drip.  She had an
echocardiogram on [**8-3**] and again on [**8-23**], to
evaluate for cardiac dysfunction and valvular diseases.  The
echocardiogram demonstrated normal heart function and an
ejection fraction of 65%.  No vegetations were seen.  The
etiology of her hypertension was felt to be a combination of
sepsis, chronic autonomic dysfunction and sedation.  Once the
patient was weaned off of her sedation and was improving
clinically, her blood pressures remained stable, only
requiring occasionally fluid boluses in the setting of
Oxycodone or Haldol when given p.r.n.

She did not require Neo-Synephrine to maintain her blood
pressure after [**2720-8-23**].

4.  GASTROINTESTINAL:  The patient has a long history of work
up for three year chronic diarrhea.  She has been followed by
Dr. [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 6544**] and the work-up is detailed in the [**Hospital 6545**]
medical record.  The GI Service was initially consulted given
the evidence of potential mass in the patient's stomach on
KUB and the additional abdominal CT scan.  The patient had
been taking large amounts of Imodium prior to the admission,
apparently as much as 36 tablets a day.  The GI Service was
interested in performing an esophagogastroduodenoscopy but
given the patient's initial inability to wean off the
Neo-Synephrine, this had to be deferred.

The CT scan of the abdomen on [**8-20**], showed no
evidence of collections within the stomach.  Given this, an
esophagogastroduodenoscopy and any further work-up for the
diarrhea was deferred until the patient has completed her
rehabilitation.

In regards to her diarrhea, the patient initially had absent
bowel sounds and no sounds and no bowel movements but
following administration of Reglan and Lactulose, developed
green foul smelling diarrhea felt to be consistent with
Clostridium difficile.  She was treated with Flagyl p.o. 500
mg p.o. three times a day and her stool output decreased and
she began to have watery brown stools.

At the date of discharge, she still had about 200 to 400 cc.
of watery brown stool.  On [**9-3**], the patient was also
restarted on her Creon in addition to her tube fees.

For further work-up of her underlying gastrointestinal
illness, she will have to follow-up with the Gastrointestinal
Service as an outpatient once her acute medical issues have
resolved.  As noted above, the Gastrointestinal Service had
also been consulted regarding the increase in alkaline
phosphatase and the possibility of liver involvement of her
Candidiasis.  Given that she was being treated with AmBisome,
at that time no further work-up was recommended by the
Gastrointestinal Service.

5.  RENAL:  The patient's baseline creatinine is 0.6 to 0.7.
In the initial stages of her adult respiratory distress
syndrome she had a tendency to go into pulmonary edema in the
setting of receiving large amounts of fluid from total
parenteral nutrition as well as her amphotericin-B requiring
lasix.  In the setting of amphotericin-B, Lasix and CT scans
with contrast, her creatinine increased to 1.1, which
prompted the change to AmBisome.  Following this switch, the
creatinine decreased back to the patient's baseline of 0.6 to
0.7, where it has been stable since.

6.  HEMATOLOGY:  The patient's hematocrit largely remained
stable in the mid-20s range throughout the admission.  She
did, however, require two transfusions of single units of
packed red blood cells in the setting of repeated blood draws
for blood cultures and laboratory studies.  Given this
chronic anemia, her iron studies were repeated on [**8-23**], and showed an iron of 10, ferritin of 731 and a TIBC of
80, consistent with anemia of chronic disease.

During the admission, there was also noted that whenever a
line was attempted to be placed, the needle or catheter had a
tendency to clot.  Given this finding and persistent fevers,
a hypercoagulability work-up was initiated.  The patient was
negative for lupus anticoagulant, cardiolipin antibodies, IgG
and IgM, Factor V lidin.  The anti-thrombin 3 was normal at
85; homocysteine was normal at 10.3.  The patient's protein C
was low at 62 (normal larger than 67).  Factor protein S was
41% (normal 51 to 133%).  A prothrombin mutation is pending.

Protein C can be lowered in adult respiratory distress
syndrome and Protein S can be lowered in chronic diseases.
The Hematology Service was curb-sided and did not feel that
therapy was warranted at this point.  The patient had normal
D-Dimer and high fibrinogen and showed no signs of active
clot formation.

7.  PSYCHIATRY:  The patient, as an outpatient, was on
Klonopin for anxiety and depression.  The Psychiatric Service
had been consulted during the initial admission and had
recommended the initiation of Remeron.  Following the
intubation, the patient was sedated and on an Ativan drip as
well as a Fentanyl drip for her chronic pain.  Both of these
drips were weaned as the patient's respiratory status
improved and she was put on a Fentanyl patch, initially 75
micrograms per hour and later 50 micrograms per hour for pain
control.

The Psychiatric Service was consulted regarding the
initiation of new anti-depressant therapy.  Their
recommendations were to place the patient on 0.5 mg
intravenous Haldol twice a day as well as p.r.n. Haldol;
Remeron 7.5 mg q. h.s. was started on [**9-1**].  The plan
will be to discontinue the patient's Haldol as she becomes
more awake and she will need outpatient psychiatric follow-up
for further adjustment of her medications.

8.   NEUROLOGY:  The Neurology Service had been consulted
during the beginning stages of the admission regarding the
patient's progressive weakness.  The consideration was that
the patient had mitochondrial neuro-gastrointestinal and
cephalomyopathy, however, mitochondrial mutation analysis
revealed that this was not the case.  The Neurology Service
did not have any further recommendations at this point.

Given the question of the patient's chronic inflammatory
demyelinization disease for which the etiology has not been
identified, the patient might benefit from a future neurology
work-up once the stages of rehabilitation are completed.

9.  NUTRITION:  Following intubation, the patient was started
on total parenteral nutrition and as she became more stable,
a nasogastric tube was placed, however, given the patient's
history of gastroparesis the tube feeds through the
nasogastric tube did not succeed.  The patient had a
post-pyloric NJ-tube placed on [**8-23**], and cuticular
tube feeds were started at this point.  However, on [**8-29**], the patient pulled out the NJ-tube.  She was placed back
on total parenteral nutrition and a PEG-J tube was placed on
[**9-1**] and she was started on tube feeds with Peptamen
supplemented by Creon three times a day.  She has been
tolerating these tube feeds well.

Once she has been weaned off the vent, the issue of p.o.
intake can be revisited.

Of note, a PEG-J tube cannot be used for bolus feeds, but
only for continuous tube feeds.

Please see Discharge Addendum to be discharged separately for
[**Hospital **] hospital course following [**9-4**], including
Condition on Discharge, Discharge Service, Discharge
Medications and Discharge Diagnoses.


                            [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 2314**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 3075**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2720-9-4**]  16:18
T:  [**2720-9-4**]  17:40
JOB#:  [**Job Number 6546**]



DOC CLASS