Admission Date:  [**2983-8-13**]     Discharge Date:  [**2983-8-23**]

Date of Birth:   [**2946-4-20**]     Sex:  F

Service:  TRAUMA

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 36-year-old female who
sustained a motor vehicle accident.  The patient was a
passenger in the car.  She had positive loss of consciousness
after the car struck a tree at approximately 35 miles per
hour.  On arrival, the patient had [**Initials (NamePattern4) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 3576**] coma scale of
15.  Her vital signs were stable in the field and she was
alert and oriented times three.  She is complaining of left
shoulder pain and knee pain.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Asthma.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  Cholecystectomy.

ALLERGIES:  Codeine and erythromycin.

MEDICATIONS:  Asthma inhalers.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  The patient has a temperature of
101.8.  Heart rate 87.  Blood pressure 125/65.  Saturation
was 99% on ten liters of oxygen.  Respiratory rate 21.
General:  She was alert and oriented times three.  There was
no distress.  Pupils were equally round and reactive to
light.  Tympanic membranes were clear bilaterally.  Chest was
without obvious deformity.  She was tender on the left lower
chest.  Lungs were clear to auscultation bilaterally.  Heart
is a regular rate and rhythm without murmur.  Abdomen was
tender in the right upper quadrant greater than the left
upper quadrant.  She had positive guarding and left flank
abrasions without laceration.  Extremities had palpable
pulses and were warm and dry.  There was no tenderness on
exam.  Back was normal without step-off or deformity except
for the left flank abrasions.  The rectal was with normal
sphincter tone and no gross blood.  She was guaiac negative.

LABORATORY STUDIES:   White blood cell count of 15.5,
hematocrit 33.1, platelets 242,000.  Sodium 140, potassium
3.4, chloride 105, CO2 24, BUN 12, creatinine 0.9, glucose
106.  Toxicology screen was negative.  Beta HCG was negative.
A C spine film showed asymmetry of the lateral masses of the
dens with unknown clinical significance.  A CT of the head
was normal.  CT scan of the abdomen and pelvis showed a Grade
3 splenic laceration and a posterior rib fracture found on
the 9th, 11th and 12th ribs.  There was also radiopaque
foreign body seen near the fractured 12th rib.  A retrograde
cystourethrogram and CT scan were also obtained which showed
extravasation of urine by a renal parenychmal injury.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  Patient was, therefore, brought to the
Operating Room for exploratory laparotomy.  During that
operation, a small amount of blood in the splenic bed was
seen.  There was no blood in the spleen capsule itself.  The
bowel was run and there were no injuries seen.  The left
retroperitoneum reveals no urinoma.  Urology was consulted
intraoperatively who agreed with the management.  The wound
was then closed and the patient was admitted to the Surgical
Intensive Care Unit.  The patient did well in the Intensive
Care Unit.  She had her pain controlled by the Acute Pain
Service.  She was on Levaquin.  She was given vaccines for
bacterial infections normally cleared by the spleen.  The
patient was transferred to the hospital floor on [**2983-8-16**].

By hospital day number five, the patient was doing well.  Her
pain was well-controlled and got out of bed without
difficulty.  Her epidural catheter for pain control was
removed.  On [**2983-8-17**], the patient had some left
substernal chest pain.  Her electrocardiogram was normal and
a chest x-ray showed a dilated gastric bubble.  A STAT
hematocrit was 26.2.  The patient had a nasogastric tube
placed without complication.  The patient was left on bowel
arrest and TPN was started for nutrition.  By hospital day
number five, the patient was doing much better.  She was able
to tolerate a diet and TPN was discontinued.  On [**2983-8-22**], the patient had a follow-up ultrasound of her kidney
which showed no fluid collection.  A repeat urinalysis showed
0-3 red blood cells.  The Foley catheter was removed and the
patient will follow up with Urology as an outpatient.

By hospital day number 11, the patient was doing much better.
She was tolerating a normal diet.  She was ambulating without
difficulty.  Her vital signs are stable and she was afebrile.
She was discharged to home with Trauma Clinic follow-up.

DISCHARGE CONDITION:  The patient was discharged in improved
condition.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  To home.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
1.  Grade 3 splenic laceration.
2.  Motor vehicle accident.
3.  Renal contusion.
4.  Rib fractures of the 9th, 11th and 12th ribs.






                          [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **], MD  [**MD Number(1) 887**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 6780**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2983-11-13**]  18:57
T:  [**2983-11-13**]  18:57
JOB#:  [**Job Number 6781**]

 
 
DOC CLASS