Admission Date:  [**3210-10-1**]     Discharge Date:

Date of Birth:   [**3185-11-28**]     Sex:  M

Service:  Medicine

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 24 year old man
who was brought by his friends to the Emergency Room because
they found his lethargic and confused.  Family members found
an empty bottle of rubbing alcohol and Excedrin P.M.
(contained Tylenol and Benadryl).  It is likely that the
patient took the above medication approximately two to three
hours prior to presentation to the Emergency Room.

On initial evaluation, the patient was unresponsive, he could
not answer questions.  He was febrile, tachycardiac and
hypotensive.  A nasogastric tube was placed but was pulled
back by the patient.  The patient required sedation with 10
mg of morphine and 8 mg of Versed.  His Tylenol level was
found to be 216.  Charcoal as well as Mucomyst were given.
The patient vomited the Mucomyst twice and was electively
intubated to protect his airway.  He was given Reglan and
droperidol before Mucomyst.  This was given again through the
nasogastric tube, with good results.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  None.

ALLERGIES:  The patient has no known drug allergies.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Ulcerative colitis.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient reports drinking approximately
three to four alcoholic beverages per week.  He smokes
one-half pack of cigarettes per day.  He recently broke up
with his partner.

LABORATORY DATA:  Admission white blood cell count was 9.8
with 28 neutrophils, 59 lymphocytes, 10 monocytes, 4
eosinophils and 2 atypicals, hematocrit 43.7, platelet count
343,000, INR 1.2, partial thromboplastin time 24.9, sodium
144, potassium 2.4, chloride 105, bicarbonate 29, BUN 9,
creatinine 0.8 and glucose 142.  Urinalysis had no ketones,
no white blood cells and no red blood cells.  Calcium was
7.5, phosphorous 2.1 and magnesium 1.5.  Toxicology screen
revealed an acetaminophen level of 216.4, aspirin negative;
following administration of morphine and Versed in the
Emergency Room, benzodiazepines and opiates were positive.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On physical examination, the patient
had a temperature of 97, heart rate 76, blood pressure
126/76, respiratory rate 10 and oxygen saturation 99% on 100%
FiO2, tidal volume 650 and PEEP of 5.  General:  Patient was
sedated and intubated white young male with black mouth,
occasionally moving extremities.  Head, eyes, ears, nose and
throat:  Anicteric sclerae, pupils 4 mm and reactive
bilaterally, mouth with charcoal, no lymphadenopathy.  Chest:
Clear to auscultation bilaterally, no wheezes, crackles or
rhonchi.  Cardiovascular:  Tachycardiac, normal S1 and S2, no
murmur, rub or gallop appreciated.  Abdomen:  Soft,
nontender, nondistended, positive bowel sounds.  Extremities:
No lower extremity edema, good distal pulses.  Neurologic:
patient unable to cooperate with examination.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was initially admitted to the
Medical Intensive Care Unit with a diagnosis of attempted
suicide with Tylenol and Benadryl.  One day following
admission to the Medical Intensive Care Unit, the patient was
transferred to the floor for further management.  During this
hospitalization, the patient's issues included:

1.  Pulmonary:  Initially, the patient was intubated for
airway protection.  He was quickly weaned from ventilatory
support and extubated within 12 hours of intubation.  While
on the floor, the patient did not have any respiratory
issues.

2.  Overdose with acetaminophen and Benadryl:  The patient
was initially treated with charcoal and Mucomyst 70 mg/kg.
During the hospitalization, the patient's acetaminophen
dropped from 216 to 69 to undetectable within 36 hours of
admission.  His liver function tests initially revealed an
INR of 1.4, ALT 57 and AST 41.  Thirty-six hours following
admission, INR was 1.3, AST 33 and ALT 56.  By that time, the
patient had received eight doses of Mucomyst.  At that time,
the patient was judged not to have sustained significant
liver damage secondary to his overdose.  His Mucomyst was
stopped, the nasogastric tube discontinued and the patient
was rapidly advanced on his diet.  He is currently able to
tolerate good oral intake.

Psychiatry was involved in the patient's evaluation.  This
afternoon, he is medically cleared and his disposition
depends upon the psychiatrists' recommendations.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  None.

CONDITION ON DISCHARGE:  Medically stable.


                           DR.[**Last Name (STitle) **],[**First Name3 (LF) **] J. 12-409



Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 2901**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**3210-10-3**]  12:01
T:  [**3210-10-3**]  12:06
JOB#:  [**Job Number 7773**]

 
 
DOC CLASS