Admission Date:  [**2835-10-3**]       Discharge Date:  [**2835-10-14**]


Service:  CARDIAC [**Doctor First Name **]

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 79 year old
male who has been in relatively good health with past medical
history only significant for hypertension and asthma.  He did
well until about three days prior to admission when he
complained of chest pressure which he first attributed to
heartburn.  The chest pressure/pain resolved without any
treatment at that time.  However, the same chest pain
recurred one and two days prior to admission.  At that time
patient went to see his primary care physician who sent him
to an outside hospital to rule out for myocardial infarction.
Patient actually ruled in for myocardial infarction with
creatine kinase levels up to 338 and troponin level up to
3.26.  At that time patient underwent cardiac
catheterization.  Cardiac catheterization showed three vessel
disease with 90% stenosis of LAD, 80% stenosis of circumflex
and 70% stenosis of RCA.  At that time estimated left
ventricular ejection fraction was 18%.  Patient was turned
down for surgery at the outside hospital and was consequently
transferred to [**Hospital1 58**] for
possible coronary artery bypass graft.  On admission patient
was pain free, having taken nitroglycerin.  He was also
maintained on IV heparin.  His last episode of angina was
approximately 48 hours prior to admission to this hospital.
There was also reported nonsustained ventricular tachycardia
during which patient remained asymptomatic by report.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Hypertension.  Asthma.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  Tonsillectomy.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  History of tobacco use.  History of alcohol
use.

FAMILY HISTORY:  History of brother with myocardial
infarction.

MEDICATIONS:  Home medications included Norvasc, theophylline
p.r.n.  Medications at the outside hospital included aspirin
325 mg p.o. q.day, Protonix 40 mg p.o. q.day, Lopressor 50 mg
p.o. t.i.d., lisinopril 10 mg p.o. q.day, Colace 100 mg p.o.
b.i.d., Lipitor 10 mg p.o. q.day, Lasix 20 mg p.o. q.day.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Afebrile, heart rate 64, blood
pressure 140/60, respiratory rate 20.  General exam: elderly
gentleman in no apparent distress.  HEENT exam was within
normal limits.  Neck exam showed no JVD, no bruits, supple.
Respiratory exam was clear to auscultation bilaterally.
Cardiac exam showed irregular rate, but normal S1, S2.
Abdominal exam was soft, nondistended, nontender, no
hepatosplenomegaly.  Extremities showed no edema, positive
for varicosities.  Pulses were present in the upper
extremities.  Patient had dorsalis pedis pulses that were
palpable, but posterior tibial pulses were not palpable.
Neurologically there was nothing grossly abnormal and patient
was oriented times three.

LABORATORY DATA:  On admission white blood cell count 6.6,
platelets 219.  Sodium 136, potassium 4.3, BUN 9, creatinine
0.8, glucose 88.  PTT 48.9.  EKG showed sinus rhythm at a
rate of 71.  ST depressions as well as T wave inversions in
V5 and V6.  Chest x-ray done at the outside hospital showed
no infiltrates or effusions.  It did show atelectasis at the
left lung base and a prominent thoracic aorta.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to cardiac
surgery.  Given the findings on cardiac catheterization, it
was thought that coronary artery bypass would be the best
option for the patient.  The risks and benefits of the
operation were discussed with patient who agreed to the
procedure.  On [**2835-10-5**] patient underwent placement of an
intra-aortic balloon pump preoperatively for coronary artery
bypass graft.  On the same day patient underwent coronary
artery bypass graft times three (LIMA to LAD, SVG to OM, SVG
to PDA).  At the same time patient underwent mitral valve
ring annuloplasty with a 28 [**Doctor Last Name 1326**].  Patient tolerated the
procedure well.  There were no complications.  Please see the
full operative note for details.  Patient was transferred to
the intensive care unit in good condition.  Perioperative
ejection fraction was estimated to be approximately 30%.

In the intensive care unit patient's gas was pH of 7.44, PCO2
39, PO2 159.  He remained intubated.  Patient was making good
urine.  The intra-aortic balloon pump was removed on
postoperative day one.  The intra-aortic balloon pump was
removed by the cardiology Fellow.  On postoperative day one
patient was extubated which was successful.  Patient was
oxygenating well on face mask.  Patient was transfused with
one unit of packed red blood cells on postoperative day two
for hematocrit of 26.5.  Patient was started on a beta
blocker.  In addition, amiodarone was started given some
ectopy (PVCs, PACs) seen on the monitor.  Overall patient
remained in regular rhythm.

Physical therapy was consulted and they followed patient
during his hospitalization.  On postoperative day three while
still in the intensive care unit, patient was noted to have
slightly lower arterial oxygen levels.  Chest x-ray performed
at that time showed right lower lobe consolidation.  Patient
was also producing some thick sputum.  Patient also had a run
of atrial fibrillation.  He was treated with Lopressor and
amiodarone bolus.  He converted to normal sinus rhythm.  His
Foley catheter was removed on postoperative day four.  His
central line was removed on postoperative day four.  Patient
was consequently transferred to the regular floor in stable
condition.

He continued to do well.  He remained in sinus rhythm.
Hematocrit was stable.  He was oxygenating well on
supplemental oxygen.  His diuretic regimen was increased
secondary to mild lower extremity edema.  He was maintained
on Lopressor and captopril.  Patient was originally with a
sitter given frequent episodes of confusion.  However, toward
the end of his hospitalization, the sitter was no longer
required.  He was alert and oriented times three.  He was
ambulating with assistance.  His pacing wires were removed.
Patient was discharged to the rehabilitation facility in
stable condition.

CONDITION ON DISCHARGE:  Stable.

DISPOSITION:  To rehabilitation facility.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
1.  Coronary artery disease and mitral regurgitation, status
post coronary artery bypass graft times three and mitral
valve ring annuloplasty.
2.  Hypertension.
3.  Asthma.

DI[**Last Name (STitle) **]E INSTRUCTIONS:  The patient is to see his surgeon,
Dr. [**Last Name (Prefixes) **] in approximately four weeks.  Patient is to
see a cardiologist in approximately three to four weeks.
Patient is to see his primary care physician in approximately
one to two weeks.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  The list of discharge medications
will be dictated separately.






                            [**Doctor Last Name **] [**Last Name (Prefixes) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 660**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 1718**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2835-10-12**]  21:36
T:  [**2835-10-12**]  22:03
JOB#:  [**Job Number 20676**]



DOC CLASS