Admission Date: [**2826-10-23**]       Discharge Date: [**2826-10-29**]


Service:  [**Hospital Unit Name 336**]

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is an 83 year old male
transferred from [**Hospital3 2646**] Hospital in [**Location (un) **] with a
past medical history of diabetes mellitus, chronic renal
insufficiency with baseline of 2.1 creatinine and
hypertension who presented with chest pain and shortness of
breath and ruled in for non-Q wave myocardial infarction with
troponin of 14.5 at an outside hospital.  There he was found
to be in congestive heart failure and diuresed with a
subsequent bump in his creatinine from 2.1 baseline to 2.6.
At the outside hospital an echocardiogram showed severe
aortic stenosis with valve area of 0.5 cm squared and an
ejection fraction of 35%.

The patient presented with mid sternal chest pain radiating
to both arms, arm heaviness and overwhelming sense of fatigue
and shortness of breath.  It was relieved when he sat upright
and worse when he was lying down.  The patient went to the
Emergency Department and his chest pain was relieved after
one sublingual nitroglycerin.  The patient has had increase
in chest pressure with exertion over the past one and a half
years.  He has also had increased chest pressure, status post
eating which occurs about 15 minutes after a meal.  He has no
fever and chills.  He sleeps on one pillow with no increase,
no paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, no coughing, no lightheaded
and no syncope.  He has a history of five to six years of
chronic lower extremity edema.  No abdominal pain after
meals, no melena, no hematochezia, no dysuria, no transient
ischemic attack symptoms.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  No prior cardiac history.  Diabetes
mellitus for 14 years.  Chronic renal insufficiency, baseline
creatinine 2.1.  Stroke ten years ago with a question of a
right facial droop, now on Coumadin.  Echocardiogram at [**Hospital3 13008**] Hospital, [**Location (un) **], showing ejection fraction of
35%, severe atrial fibrillation, hypertension,
hypercholesterolemia, cataract surgery, tonsillectomy,
appendectomy.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  (At outside hospital/admission
here)  Aspirin 81 mg p.o. q.d.; Glucotrol 20 mg p.o. q.d.;
Prevacid; Lasix 40 mg intravenously b.i.d.; Lopressor 12.5 mg
b.i.d.; Mucomyst 600 mg p.o. b.i.d.; Heparin drip;
Nitroglycerin drip.  The patient took Coumadin at home 5 mg
q.d. and Nifedipine 60 mg q.d. at home.

ALLERGIES:  Sulfa ? reaction; statins with myopathy.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Lives with daughter in [**Location (un) **], quit
tobacco in [**2793**] and smoked [**11-19**] pack per day for 40 years,
worked as a custodian, no alcohol, no drugs.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Mother with diabetes in her 70s.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Examination on admission revealed
temperature 98.4, blood pressure 114/60, pulse 72,
respirations 18, 140 lbs by patient report.  General:  Alert
and oriented in no acute distress.  Head, eyes, ears, nose
and throat, extraocular movements intact, pupils equal, round
and reactive to light, anicteric sclera, mucous membranes
moist.  Neck, no jugulovenous distension, no lymphadenopathy.
 Chest, bibasilar rales.  Cardiac, regular rate and rhythm,
S1 and S2, harsh III/VI systolic ejection murmur, loudest at
apex, radiating to carotids and to femoral vessels.  Abdomen,
nontender, nondistended, normoactive, no organomegaly.
Rectal, large prostate guaiac negative stool.  Extremities,
no cyanosis, clubbing or edema.  Vascular, bilateral femoral
bruits, likely radiated from heart.  Bilateral carotid
bruits, questionably radiating from heart as well.  2+
dorsalis pedis pulses bilaterally.  Neurologic, cranial
nerves II through XII intact.  Strength, [**3-22**] in upper and
lower extremities.  Left arm with slight intention tremor.
Sensory grossly intact.  Patellar reflexes equal bilaterally.
 Babinski downgoing bilaterally.

LABORATORY DATA:  Laboratory studies at the outside hospital
on admission on [**10-23**], white blood cell count 10,
hematocrit 37.8, platelets 145, LDL in 200s.  Sodium 136,
potassium 4.5, chloride 96, bicarbonate 30, BUN 51,
creatinine 2.6, platelets 202, calcium 8.5 and INR 1.8.
Electrocardiogram, normal sinus rhythm, 70, left axis
deviation, positive left atrial abnormality, positive left
ventricular hypertrophy, positive left ventricular strain
pattern in V4 through V6 and one in AVL.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  This is an 83 year old male without
significant past cardiac history with a history of
hypercholesterolemia, diabetes mellitus, and hypertension who
was transferred from an outside hospital after ruling in for
non-Q wave myocardial infarction, congestive heart failure
and found to have critical aortic stenosis by echocardiogram.
The patient was also found to have increase in his creatinine
from 2.1 to 2.6 after diuresis of his congestive heart
failure.  On presentation he was asymptomatic with
Nitroglycerin drip and status post diuresis.

1.  Cardiac - A.  Coronary artery disease, the patient with
increasing exertional chest pressure over the past few months
with more recent increased angina when lying down flat,
relieved when sitting upright.  This is likely due to
elements of congestive heart failure when lying flat.  He
ruled in for non-Q wave myocardial infarction by positive
troponins at outside hospital.  He likely has both coronary
artery disease and subendocardial ischemia with his critical
aortic stenosis.  On admission here he was continued on his
heparin drip, weaned off of his Nitroglycerin drip because of
his critical aortic stenosis and continued on his beta
blocker and Aspirin.

Cardiac catheterization was done after his renal function
showed some improvement.  This showed:  Three vessel cardiac
disease with calcified left anterior descending and moderate
diffuse disease throughout with stenosis of 60% in the mid
segment.  The dominant circumflex had 50% proximal disease
and 80% distal disease.  An obtuse marginal had a proximal
90% stenosis.  The nondominant right coronary artery also had
a stenosis of 80% at its mid segment.

Because of his three vessel disease, this patient was thought
to be a candidate for coronary artery bypass graft.  The
patient was awaiting coronary artery bypass graft and had
multiple episodes of chest pain during this time.  This chest
pain was relieved on occasion by merely sitting the patient
upright.  Other times it required one to two sublingual
nitroglycerins administered judiciously to try to prevent too
much preload reduction with his critical aortic stenosis.  On
occasion this chest pain was associated with flash pulmonary
edema and desaturations to 85% which was relieved by
sublingual nitroglycerin and Lasix.

B.  Pump, this is a patient with critical aortic stenosis
seen by cardiac catheterization and echocardiogram with
increasing angina, and dyspnea.  He has no history of
syncope.

Cardiac catheterization showed hemodynamics with normal
right-sided filling pressures and mildly elevated left-sided
filling pressures with a mean gradient of 35.5 mg of mercury
across the aortic valve and a calculated valve area of 0.79
cm squared.  The cardiac index was mildly reduced at 2.3.

The patient had echocardiogram as well this admission which
showed ejection fraction of 40%.  The severe aortic stenosis
was seen with symmetric left ventricular hypertrophy and
regional dysfunction of his inferolateral and inferior walls
with hypo and akinesis in this region consistent with
coronary artery disease.  He also had mild to moderate mitral
regurgitation and moderate pulmonary artery hypertension by
this study.

The patient was continued on his Metoprolol 25 mg p.o. b.i.d.
and cautious use of Nitroglycerin was used during his
episodes of flash pulmonary edema.

CEP, the patient was in normal sinus rhythm throughout this
hospitalization with evidence of left ventricular strain on
his electrocardiogram with no significant event on telemetry.

The patient has a history of hypertension and has blood
pressure ranged from 120 to 160 systolic during this
hospitalization.

2.  Carotid artery disease - The patient was thought to be a
candidate for coronary artery bypass graft and aortic valve
repair.  Prior to his surgery he did receive a carotid artery
duplex evaluation which showed 80 to 99% stenosis of the
right internal carotid artery and occlusion of the left side.
He was then given an magnetic resonance imaging scan,
magnetic resonance angiography of his head and neck which
confirmed these ultrasound studies.  It did show a patent
circle of [**Location (un) 983**] and flow in the vertebral arteries.  The
patient was thought to benefit most from right coronary
artery stenting prior to his coronary artery bypass graft and
aortic valve repair surgery.  At the time of this dictation
he will be undergoing this procedure today.  He had no signs
of acute stroke by his magnetic resonance imaging scan.

3.  Renal - The patient had acute and chronic renal failure,
status post diuresis for his congestive heart failure on
admission.

The patient's creatinine fluctuated between 2.1 and 2.6
during this hospitalization with an increase 48 hours after
cardiac catheterization and slight increases after his
diuresis in the setting of his flash pulmonary edema.
Overall, however, it has ranged in the 2.4 to 2.5 range with
good urine output.

4.  Hematology - The patient had been anticoagulated for his
history of stroke.  He was continued on his heparin GGT
during this admission for his acute coronary syndrome as well
as his cardiovascular disease.  His Coumadin was held.  His
platelets remained stable in the low 100s on heparin
throughout this stay.

5.  Diabetes mellitus - His blood sugars ranged from 170 to
250 during his stay on the floor on a regular insulin sliding
scale.  He was kept on the sliding scale and his Glucotrol
was discontinued because of his multiple catheterizations and
during this week.

6.  Hypercholesterolemia - The patient could not tolerate
statins and develops myopathy with these.  He was continued
on a low cholesterol diet.

DISPOSITION:  The patient will have his carotid stent and go
to the Coronary Care Unit.  He will then be transferred to
the Cardiothoracic Surgery Team for coronary artery bypass
graft and aortic valve repair.

This dictation encompasses the hospital stay from [**10-23**]
to [**2826-10-18**].

MEDICATIONS:
1.  Aspirin 81 mg p.o. q.d.
2.  Protonix 40 mg p.o. q.d.
3.  Metoprolol 25 mg p.o. b.i.d.
4.  Insulin sliding scale
5.  Nitroglycerin 0.3 mg sublingual times one prn



                            [**Doctor First Name **] [**Name8 (MD) 3324**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) **]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern4) 23785**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2826-10-29**]  15:36
T:  [**2826-10-29**]  16:33
JOB#:  [**Job Number 23786**]



DOC CLASS