Admission Date:  [**3072-11-1**]       Discharge Date: [**3072-11-27**]

Date of Birth:   [**3022-11-7**]       Sex:  F

Service:  CCU

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Ventricular fibrillation arrest.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 50 year old woman with
a known prior medical history found collapsed at work and
underwent cardiopulmonary resuscitation by emergency medical
services within about ten minutes of her collapse.  Found to
be pulseless and in ventricular fibrillation.  She was
shocked twice and back in sinus.  Intubation attempted
multiple times and not successful.  The patient was bagged
and transported to [**Hospital3 1758**] Hospital continuing to have
episodes of supraventricular tachycardia and ventricular
fibrillation.  She received four additional shocks.  She
received a bolus of Amiodarone times three and then was found
to have similar ST elevations in leads 3 and aVF.  She was
given a heparin bolus and started on Integrilin and
transferred here for cardiac catheterization.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Notable for ethyl alcohol and tobacco
history.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Ethyl alcohol and tobacco as mentioned
above.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  The patient arrived intubated from the
[**Hospital3 1758**] Hospital for cardiac catheterization.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient underwent cardiac
catheterization on [**3072-11-1**] elevation,
myocardial infarction with ventricular fibrillation arrest.
Cardiac catheterization was notable for the following,
proximal right coronary artery had 80% stenosis, diffusely
diseased, mid right coronary artery 80% stenosis and 80%
stenosis of the distal right coronary artery with a total of
four stents employed with a gap left in the mid right
coronary artery in the distribution of a relatively normal
vessel.  There was a Type B dissection in the mid vessel, but
clinically she was treated with two of these four stents.

Attention was then turned to the left circumflex.  Rapid
fluid was used to predilate stenosis.  A pixel stent was then
deployed into the proximal left circumflex.  The patient's
post procedure course was notable for the following.  The
patient was successfully weaned and extubated off of the
vent, however, due to acute agitation and confusion, status
post catheterization believed due to ethyl alcohol
withdrawal, despite treatments with Ativan and Haldol, she
was intubated for protection.  Psychiatry was consulted at
that time.

The patient's course was complicated at that point with
Streptococcal pneumonia and acute respiratory distress
syndrome.  She was treated with steroids and Zosyn for a
total course of three weeks.  The patient remained difficult
to wean off the vent, prompting tracheostomy to be performed
by Otorhinolaryngology.  The patient's course was notable for
poor absorption from her nasogastric tube with high residuals
prompting placement now of the gastrostomy tube by General
Surgery at the bedside.  The patient was, however,
successfully weaned off of the vent status post tracheostomy.

Neurology was consulted to evaluate the neurological status
and prognosis.  Electroencephalogram was performed which was
within normal limits.  A noncontrast head computerized
tomography scan was also performed which showed no signs of
acute bleed.  However, it did show an old infarct in the left
frontal region, etiology which is unclear.  [**Name2 (NI) **] now is to
discharge the patient to a rehabilitation facility.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  To be added as an addendum discharge
summary.



                            [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 1671**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 15750**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**3072-11-27**]  08:03
T:  [**3072-11-27**]  08:19
JOB#:  [**Job Number 28164**]



DOC CLASS