Admission Date:  [**3271-3-18**]     Discharge Date:  [**3271-3-23**]

Date of Birth:   [**3199-5-23**]     Sex:  M

Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Mr. [**Known patient lastname 19575**] is a 71-year-old
gentleman who is a plumbing contractor who has been followed
for his aortic aneurysm which has now about 4.8 cm in
diameter and has increased about 1 cm in the last year.

The patient was postponed for his surgery as he weighed some
225 pounds and went on a dieting regimen, losing almost 30
pounds down to a weight of 190.  He has a history of a
previous appendectomy and knee and shoulder arthroscopies.
He has also had a hernia repair in the past.  He is not a
diabetic.  He has no evidence of claudication and has no
history of heart disease.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  On physical
examination Mr. [**Known patient lastname 19575**] was a healthy-looking gentleman
showing the effects of some recent blood loss.  He had no
bruits over his carotid, femoral or distal pulses.  His
distal pulses were normal, especially his dorsalis pedis
pulses which were 4+.  He had no evidence of popliteal
aneurysm, but he did have approximately a 4.5-cm X 4.8-cm
abdominal aortic aneurysm.

RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  He had undergone outpatient angiography
which had disclosed a small left lower pole renal artery
branch that came off below the main renal arteries.

Records show that on [**2-18**] he also had a exercise
thallium test that showed no significant fixed or reversible
perfusion defects with normal wall motion and an ejection
fraction of 71%.

PERTINENT LABORATORY DATA ON PRESENTATION:  His laboratory
tests were all within fairly normal limits.

HOSPITAL COURSE:   We felt he was a good candidate for open
aneurysm repair which was discussed quite thoroughly with
him.  On the day of admission, the patient underwent elective
repair of abdominal aortic aneurysm.  He had fairly marked
calcification in the infrarenal aorta as well as the aortic
bifurcation.  The left lower pole renal artery was excised
with a Carrel patch and placed into the side of the 18-mm
Dacron graft which was placed from his infrarenal aorta to
his aortic bifurcation.  The patient was given about 1000
units of cellsaver blood with 4500 cc of crystalloid.

His postoperative course following this procedure was really
quite uneventful.  He had some low blood pressures, probably
on the basis of his epidural catheter.  His hematocrit
drifted down to around the 40 area, and over the course of
the next few days he underwent a rapid convalescence from his
aneurysm repair.  His blood count on [**3-31**] was actually
a hematocrit of 30, with a creatinine of 0.6, and a blood
urea nitrogen of 8.

He will be discharged on some Tylenol with codeine for pain
control.  His abdominal incision was healing well, and in any
other way he was eating and moving his bowels at the time of
discharge.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:  Abdominal aortic aneurysm.

OPERATION:  Open repair with an 18-mm tube graft with Carrel
patch of the left lower pole renal artery to the site of the
graft.

DISCHARGE FOLLOWUP:   The patient will be seen in followup in
approximately one week's time for removal of his staples.
The patient will be seen in the outpatient department for
follow up.




                          [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 10074**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 10075**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern4) 19576**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**3271-3-23**]  10:21
T:  [**3271-3-25**]  07:26
JOB#:  [**Job Number 19577**]



DOC CLASS